docs: add pattern page 'Review and submit' (#2083)
agriculturegovau/agds-next: docs/content/patterns/review-and-submit/index.mdx

---
title: Review and submit

> description: Review and submit is an important step of a multi-page where users can review all information provided, make changes, understand privacy and security policies and submit the form. This pattern is used in multi-page forms.

Reviewer: …multi-page… process, form?

relatedComponents: ['progress-indicator', 'summary-list', 'task-list']
---

> If there are any [declarations](/patterns/declarations), this is where they can be added.

Reviewer: Do we have declarations yet?

## Summary of input

> The layout for the ‘Review and submit’ page should include read only information from all form pages of the form Multi-page form. Each form page should have it’s own section and heading to help users scan the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The layout for the ‘Review and submit’ page should include read-only information from all form pages of the multi-page form. Each form page should have its own section and heading to help users scan the page.
```

> Information for each form page section should be presented to the user as a summary list. A Table can be used instead of a Summary list if a table was used on the form page. Summary lists are preferred because they provide less issues to screen reader users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Information for each form page section should be presented to the user as a [summary list](/components/summary-list). A [table](/components/table) can be used instead of a summary list if a table was used on the corresponding form page. Summary lists are preferred because they are easier for screen reader users to navigate.
```

> Users should have the ability to edit any information prior to ‘Review and submit’. This can be achieved with an action at the bottom of the summary list or table. In some cases an edit action on each row can also be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users should have the ability to edit any information prior to ‘Review and submit’. This can be achieved with an action beneath each summary list or table. In some cases, an edit action on each row can also be used.
```

> When multiple closely related inputs are included in the Summary list, combining similar fields together in the list can reduce the complexity of the page and make it easier to read. For example the individual fields of an address form page can be combined into one row of a summary list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple, closely-related inputs can be combined in the summary list to reduce the complexity of the page and make it easier to read. For example, the individual fields of an address form page can be combined into one ‘Address’ row in a summary list.
```

						<SummaryListItemTerm>Term</SummaryListItemTerm>
						<SummaryListItemDescription>Description</SummaryListItemDescription>
					</SummaryListItem>
					<SummaryListItem>
						<SummaryListItemTerm>Term</SummaryListItemTerm>
						<SummaryListItemDescription>Description</SummaryListItemDescription>
					</SummaryListItem>
					<SummaryListItem>
						<SummaryListItemTerm>Term</SummaryListItemTerm>
						<SummaryListItemDescription>Description</SummaryListItemDescription>
					</SummaryListItem>
				</SummaryList>
				<TextLink href="#">Change page 1 summary list</TextLink>
			</Stack>
			<Stack gap={1.5}>
				<H2>Page 2 summary list</H2>
				<SummaryList>
					<SummaryListItem>
						<SummaryListItemTerm>Term</SummaryListItemTerm>
						<SummaryListItemDescription>Description</SummaryListItemDescription>
					</SummaryListItem>
					<SummaryListItem>
						<SummaryListItemTerm>Term</SummaryListItemTerm>
						<SummaryListItemDescription>Description</SummaryListItemDescription>
					</SummaryListItem>
				</SummaryList>
				<TextLink href="#">Change page 2 summary list</TextLink>
			</Stack>

			<Divider />
			<ButtonGroup>
				<Button>Submit form</Button>

> 				<Button variant="secondary">Save and exit</Button>

Reviewer: My eyes! 
<img width="439" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/be6b339c-2042-4169-8058-fc0bb2f4456d" />

				<Button variant="tertiary">Cancel</Button>
			</ButtonGroup>
		</Stack>
	</Column>
</Columns>
```

## When to use ‘Review and submit’

### Multi-page form

> In a multi-page form, the journey should begin with a ‘Getting started’ page that explains the purpose of the form, what the user will need, and what to expect. This is followed by the main form pages where the user provides their information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a multi-page form, the journey should begin with a ‘Getting started’ page that explains the purpose of the form, what the user will need, and what to expect when completing the form. This is then followed by the individual form pages where the user must provide the appropriate information.
```

> Before submitting, the user should be shown a ‘Review and submit’ page to check all the details they’ve entered. Once the form is submitted, a ‘Success’ page should confirm the submission and explain what happens next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before submitting the entire form, users should be shown a ‘Review and submit’ page to allow them ti check all the details they’ve entered. Once the form is submitted, a ‘Success’ page should confirm the submission and explain what happens next.
```

The yourGov example app demonstrates the multi-page form pattern.

<ResponsivePreview

> 	href="/yourgov/app/permits/apply-for-new-permit/mobile-food-vendor-permit/steps/owner-details"

Reviewer: All of these seem to 404

Author: We haven't released the yourgov unauth, it should work prefixed with `/develop`

	label="Preview Multi-page form"
	referrerLabel={title}

> 	title="yourGov: multi-page form preview"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	title="yourGov: Multi-page form preview"
```

/>

### Multi-task form

> In a Multi-task form process, each Multi-page form should have it’s own ‘Review and Submit’ step. This allows different forms to be combined in a modular and scalable way to create a Muti-task process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a multi-task form process, each multi-page form should have its own ‘Review and Submit’ step. This allows different forms to be combined in a modular and scalable way to create a muti-task process.
```

When multiple different forms are required, a Task list can be used to guide a user through a Multi-task process. A multi-task process is usually made up of multiple multi-page forms. Each Multi-page form included in a Task-list should have it’s own review and submit step. This is important because Multi-page forms can be used in a modular way across different Multi-task services.

> In all situations ‘Review and submit’ tasks should enable the user to review all information they have provided before submitting a form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In all situations ‘Review and submit’ tasks should enable the user to review all of the  information they have provided before submitting the form.
```

```jsx live
<Stack gap={3}>
	<DirectionLink direction="left" href="#">
		Back
	</DirectionLink>
	<Stack gap={1.5}>
		<H1>Title of multi-task process</H1>
		<Text as="p" color="muted" fontSize="md">
			The introductory paragraph provides context about the entire multi-task
			form.
		</Text>
		<Text as="p" color="muted" fontSize="sm">
			Takes around 15 minutes.
		</Text>
	</Stack>
	<Details iconBefore label="More information about form">
		<Text as="p">
			This is a small paragraph of text that is supplementary to the main page
			content.
		</Text>
	</Details>
	<TaskList
		items={[
			{
				href: '#',
				label: 'Multi-page form 1',
				message: 'Short description of the task',
				status: 'todo',
			},
			{
				href: '#',
				label: 'Multi-page form 2',
				message: 'Short description of the task',
				status: 'todo',
			},
			{
				href: '#',
				label: 'Multi-page form 3',
				message: 'Short description of the task',
				status: 'blocked',
			},
		]}
	/>
</Stack>
```

## Editing from ‘Review and submit’

To edit information on the ‘Review and Submit’ page, users can click the ‘Change’ link available under each summary list on the ‘Review and submit’ page.

> The ‘Edit’ page will appear as a sub-step of the ‘Review and submit’ Progress indicator item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ‘Edit’ page will appear as a sub-step of the ‘Review and submit’ item in the [progress indicator](/components/progress-indicator).
```

> Once the changes are saved, the user will be returned to the ‘Review and submit’ page, where a success message will be displayed above the updated information in the summary list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the changes are saved, the user will be returned to the ‘Review and submit’ page, where a success message is displayed above the updated information in the summary list or table.
```

### Review and submit sub-step

```jsx live
<Columns gap={{ xs: 1, md: 3 }}>
	<Column columnSpan={{ xs: 12, md: 4 }}>
		<ProgressIndicator
			activePath="#review/page-1"
			items={[
				{ label: 'Page 1', status: 'done', href: '#page-1' },
				{ label: 'Page 2', status: 'done', href: '#page-2' },
				{
					items: [
						{
							label: 'Page 1 sub step',
							href: '#review/page-1',
						},
					],
					label: 'Review and submit',
					status: 'started',
					href: '#review',
				},
			]}
		/>
	</Column>
	<Column columnSpan={{ xs: 12, md: 8 }}>
		<Stack gap={3}>
			<DirectionLink direction="left" href="#">
				Back
			</DirectionLink>
			<Stack gap={1.5}>
				<H1>
					<Text
						color="muted"
						display="block"
						fontSize="sm"
						fontWeight="bold"
						lineHeight="heading"
					>
						Title of multi page form
					</Text>
					Page 1 title
				</H1>
				<Text as="p" color="muted" fontSize="md">
					Check your name and contact details.
				</Text>
			</Stack>
			<FormStack>
				<TextInput hideOptionalLabel label="Term" value="Description" />

> 				<TextInput hideOptionalLabel label="Label text" value="text" />

Reviewer: Why are these Label text? And shouldn't all the Terms have unique names (Term 1, Term 2 etc)?

				<TextInput hideOptionalLabel label="Label text" value="text" />
			</FormStack>
			<Divider />
			<ButtonGroup>

> 				<Button>Save and continue</Button>

Reviewer: My eyes! 
<img width="439" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c6089ac0-17a9-4e7c-961e-45537ecb9a6d" />

Author: Updated to wrap buttons on larger screens

[e1c9ff](https://github.com/agriculturegovau/agds-next/pull/2083/commits/e1c9ffd8c6b37f8b18aa66e0776395105ce2e5fd)

				<Button variant="secondary">Save and exit</Button>
				<Button variant="tertiary">Cancel</Button>
			</ButtonGroup>
		</Stack>
	</Column>
</Columns>
```

### Editing a sub-page from ‘Review and submit’

> To edit information on the ‘Review and submit’ page, users can click the ‘Change’ link available under each summary list on the ‘Review and submit’ page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To edit information on the ‘Review and submit’ page, users can click the ‘Change…’ link available under each summary list and table.
```

> If the information they need to edit was originally provided via a sub-step of a form page, users will be taken to that sub-step on the ‘Review and submit’ page. From there, they will need into navigate to that form’s level 2 page to make the change.

Reviewer: This doesn't make sense and contradicts. It will take them directly to the sub-step but then they'll need to navigate to it?

When editing information within a level 2 page, there will be no progress indicator visible. Instead, the user will be presented with a simple, single-page form. Users can navigate with the ‘Save and continue’ action at the bottom, or the back button at the top of the page.

A user must save and continue on the level 2 form and the sub-step before those changes are saved and updated on the ‘Review and submit’ page.

> To avoid data loss, the [Warn before leaving pattern](/patterns/warn-before-leaving) should be used if the user elects to navigate back to the ‘Review and Submit’ page with any other method than ‘Save and continue’.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid data loss, the [Warn before leaving pattern](/patterns/warn-before-leaving) should be used if the user elects to navigate back to the ‘Review and submit’ page with any other method than ‘Save and continue’.
```

> For an interactive example you can complete the ‘Apply for a mobile food vendor permit’ form and edit the ‘Change business owner details’ section on the ‘Review and submit’ page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an interactive example, you can complete the ‘Apply for a mobile food vendor permit’ form and edit the ‘Change business owner details’ section on the ‘Review and submit’ page.
```

Reviewer: I didn't think this example was our ideal pattern though?

				<TextInput hideOptionalLabel label="Term 2" value="Description" />
				<TextInput hideOptionalLabel label="Term 3" value="Description" />
			</FormStack>
			<Divider />
			<Flex
				alignItems={['stretch', 'center']}
				flexDirection={['column', 'row']}
				flexWrap="wrap"
				gap={1}
			>
				<Button>Save and continue</Button>
				<Button variant="secondary">Save and exit</Button>
				<Button variant="tertiary">Cancel</Button>
			</Flex>
		</Stack>
	</Column>
</Columns>
```

### Editing a sub-page from ‘Review and submit’

To edit information on the ‘Review and submit’ page, users can click the ‘Change…’ link available under each summary list and table.

When editing, the form page will be added as a sub-step of ‘Review and submit’. When a user needs to edit a sub-step of the original form page, they must navigate to that level 2 page to make the change.

When editing information within a level 2 page, there will be no progress indicator visible. Instead, the user will be presented with a simple, single-page form. Users can navigate with the ‘Save and continue’ action at the bottom, or the back button at the top of the page.

> A user must save and continue on the level 2 form. They must also save the sub-step before those changes are saved and updated on the ‘Review and submit’ page. However in user testing we have observed some confusion about the need to save twice. Further iteration and testing is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A user must save and continue on the level 2 form. They must also save the sub-step before those changes are saved and updated on the ‘Review and submit’ page. However, in user testing we observed some confusion about the need to save twice. Further iteration and testing is required.
```
